on september 28 1969
a meteorite about the weight of a moped
fell on the small town of murchison
australia residents who remember the
incident
say that a strange unpleasant smell
spread through the city
that day now almost 50 years later
scientists have managed to find out
where the unusual smell
came from hey don't look at me the
meteorite was covered in star dust
solar grains that formed about 7 billion
years ago
the unpleasant smell came from a
substance older than our planet
and even our sun by 3 billion years
long before our solar system was formed
this asteroid flew across the vast
expanses of space about two billion
years into its journey
the meteorite got coated in the dust
from extinguished stars
after another five billion years of
drifting it arrived to cause a scene on
earth in 2020
the fossils of a tyrannosaurus embryo
were discovered
this helped scientists to find details
about what the ferocious beast was like
as a baby it turns out that t-rexes were
about the size of a chihuahua at birth
the baby dinosaur was nothing like its
mature form
it had a long tail and its jaws had tiny
teeth
it's likely that it used these tiny
razor blades for hunting insects
and small lizards until it grew up
over the years these teeth fell out to
be replaced by the ones we see in films
and museums
the size of a human hand the discovery
of the embryo
also helped researchers to calculate
that the tyrannosaurus
egg was about the size of a rugby ball
in november 2018 a nasa geological robot
landed on the surface of mars
one of its goals was to investigate the
red planet's seismic activity
and transmit data to earth for the first
few months the robot didn't record
anything unusual
but in april 2019 it recorded its first
earthquake
or more accurately mars quake
on the earth the planet's surface often
shakes due to the slow movement of
tectonic plates
tension builds up in the crust and the
sudden release causes an earthquake
mars doesn't have any global plate
movement though so the phenomenon was a
mystery
to scientists in 2020 the robot
geologist
found its most exciting discovery yet it
found that mars
was singing for unknown reasons the red
planet emits a low
frequency sound nobody knows whether
this sound and the mars quakes are
related
but neither phenomena are easily
explained by scientists
now in dinosaur bones which are several
tens of millions of years old
scientists found cellular structures and
even hints of whole dna
dna is a biological code that contains
information about the structure of
living organisms
in 2020 scientists are closer than ever
to uncovering the
dinosaur code it could unlock a lot of
unknown information
about these wondrous extinct animals the
bones belong to the skull of a
plant-eating dinosaur that lived about
70 million years ago
inside these fossils the scientists saw
something that looks like
cells frozen in time they could even
find the structures where dna is stored
using a powerful microscope we don't
really have any confirmed knowledge
about the genetic
code of dinosaurs so this is a huge
finding scientists don't try to extract
dna from cells
because it could damage the rare
specimen
there's a lot of work ahead but if the
researchers managed to get a significant
dna sample
it could be possible to recreate a
dinosaur partially
or fully hey that might make a good
movie or something
we also discovered an unknown species of
mammal in 2020
the researchers called it a crazy beast
and it isn't like any other animal that
we know of
it lived on the island of madagascar
about 66 million years ago
and looked like a bit of an opossum or
badger
it has more holes in its mouth than any
known animal
which means that the animal probably had
an overly sensitive muzzle and whiskers
the crazy critter's teeth are unique
with a structure
unlike any other animal it also had more
vertebrae in its spine than any other
mammal from that time
overall this astonishing discovery could
help us learn a lot more
about the evolution of mammals
astronomers have discovered an unknown
phenomenon in deep space
depths it's called an odd radio circle
these are strange blobs in distant space
that glow and look like
almost perfect circles scientists can't
explain the origin of these strange
things
the original assumption was that the odd
radio circles were remnants of a
supernova
clouds of debris which appeared after
the star's explosion
but it turned out that the circles are
too far from stars for that to make
sense
scientists have refuted the theory that
these circles are normal radio emissions
that are commonly observed in space
there is still
no explanation for what these vast
astronomical objects are
only four have been observed since the
first discovery in 2019
so it's likely that the mystery will
take many years to solve
a strange substance has been discovered
on the far side of the moon
green cheese found
images of the objects in pictures
received from the lunar rover
taken near a crater the image shows
unusual stones that look like dark green
crystals
the substance may be glass that appeared
as a result of volcanic eruptions a long
time ago
but no one can say for sure the picture
quality is poor
and it would be hard to study the
substance in person for obvious reasons
this discovery and further research
could help us to learn more about the
moon's
origin in the coming years a team of
scientists have discovered an unusual
gaseous substance in the atmosphere of
venus
the chemical remains of phosphate this
gas is found on earth near certain types
of microbes
a trace of phosphine on venus offers us
a little hope that life may be
discovered on this planet
this is surprising because the
conditions on venus are similar to those
inside
the mouth of a volcano there are
unbelievable temperatures
and the surface of the planet is under a
considerable amount of pressure
in the venusian sky among the clouds the
conditions are less severe
making the existence of microbes more
likely
could the finding mean there is other
life in the solar system
at the end of 2020 you could watch an
incredibly rare event in the night sky
the alignment of jupiter and saturn the
two largest planets in our solar system
are hundreds of millions of miles away
from each other
but briefly on december 21st they lined
up perfectly with earth
the planets line up like this about
every 20 years
but the last time saturn was so close to
jupiter was
400 years ago this incredible event was
only visible with a clear sky
and if you missed it you could find
records of it on the internet imagine
that for two decades
you have been studying a distant star
from another galaxy
about 75 million light years away the
star is so
hot that it glows with a beautiful blue
light
and its light is two million times
brighter than the sun
then one day it just disappeared
the life of stars like this one usually
ends with an enormous brilliant
explosion
in this case though astronomers just
noticed that they couldn't find it
anymore
it's as though the star never existed
one theory is that it immediately
collapsed into a black hole
without exploding in a supernova first
if that is what happened
it will be the first ever case observed
for a star so big
it's also possible that the star dimmed
and was covered by a cloud of stardust
scientists don't know the exact answer
but we will likely find out in a few
decades
if the star suddenly reappears
bats use echolocation for hunting they
do this by making a clicking noise
to spread an ultrasound wave and listen
carefully
if the wave collides with something it
returns back
and the bat can tell how big the object
is and how far away it is
it works like sonar does on submarines
and ships
this unique technique is a big problem
for the bats prey
like moths and butterflies in 2020
scientists discovered two incredible
species of moth
that have found a genius way to hide
from the bad sound waves
the moths wings are covered with a
special fur that softens the collision
with the
sound like noise reducing acoustic foam
they also have fork shaped scales that
hinder the bat's echolocation even more
several thousand of these scales on the
wings reduce the acoustic energy of
sound
the weak wave returns to the bat who
simply doesn't notice it
this discovery could help us create a
useful nano material
that can be pasted on the wall to absorb
sound it could be
10 times more efficient than the usual
noise reducing materials
installed in residential buildings and
offices it could be yet another
amazing invention created by copying
nature
a massive image of a 120 foot cat
has been found on a hillside in peru
it's an ancient geoglyph
that was initially really hard to see
the work of specialists means that it is
finally more visible in 2020
the cat is the latest find from a
mysterious group of huge
images of animals known as the nazca
lines
archaeologists say the drawing was made
between 200
and 100 bce and it's a mystery
how or why it was created here kitty
kitty